pipeline/README.md, before:

# Market Data Ingestion Pipeline

## Overview
This pipeline handles the ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) process for historical market data. It scrapes the current S&P 500 constituents and ingests daily OHLCV data into a high-performance columnar store.

## Architecture Decisions

### 1. Polars vs Pandas
Used **Polars** for the transformation layer due to its Rust-based query engine and Lazy API.
- **Problem:** Pandas loads all data into RAM (Eager execution), which causes OOM (Out of Memory) errors when processing 500+ high-resolution files on standard hardware.
- **Solution:** Polars optimizes memory usage via zero-copy data sharing and threaded execution, allowing us to process datasets larger than available RAM.

### 2. Storage Format (Parquet + Snappy)
Data is stored as partitioned `.parquet` files with **Snappy** compression.
- **Why Parquet:** Columnar storage allows specific features (e.g., "Close" price) to be queried without scanning the entire dataset (I/O optimization).
- **Why Snappy:** A compression algorithm optimized for high-throughput read speeds, essential for minimizing latency during model training iterations.

### 3. Feature Engineering (Microstructure)
- **Dollar Volume:** Calculated as `Close * Volume`.
- **Theory:** This metric enables downstream transformation from standard Time Bars into **Dollar Bars** (sampling by constant value exchanged). This aligns with Lopez de Prado's findings (*Advances in Financial Machine Learning, 2018*) that sampling by information flow (market activity) rather than chronological time reduces statistical noise (heteroscedasticity) and improves model convergence.

### 4. Labeling (Triple Barrier Method)
Instead of fixed-time horizon labeling (which falls victim to noise), we implemented Lopez de Prado's Triple Barrier Method:
- **Upper Barrier:** Dynamic Profit Take based on rolling volatility (+2σ).
- **Lower Barrier:** Dynamic Stop Loss (-2σ).
- **Vertical Barrier:** Expiration limits (10 bars).
Result: This converts the regression problem ("predict price") into a classification problem ("predict barrier hit"), which statistically improves ML model convergence.

## 5. Preliminary Backtest Results (XGBoost)
Training on Dollar Bars (Threshold: $5B) with Triple Barrier Labeling.
**Metric:** Out-of-Sample Precision (Long Only).

| Ticker    | Precision | Status                            |
| :---      | :---      | :---                              |
| **GOOGL** | 89.74%    | ✅ Strong Alpha (Momentum Regime) |
| **AAPL**  | 59.62%    | ✅ Alpha                          |
| **MSFT**  | 56.90%    | ✅ Alpha                          |
| **NVDA**  | 50.30%    | ⚠️ Neutral / High Volatility      |
| **AMZN**  | 46.34%    | ❌ No Signal                      |

**Average Precision:** 60.58%

## Usage
Run the ingestion:
```bash
python ingest.py

Commit message:

update: Added README Meta-Labeling notes

pipeline/README.md, after:

# Market Data Ingestion Pipeline

## Overview
This pipeline handles the ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) process for historical market data. It scrapes the current S&P 500 constituents and ingests daily OHLCV data into a high-performance columnar store.

## Architecture Decisions

### 1. Polars vs Pandas
Used **Polars** for the transformation layer due to its Rust-based query engine and Lazy API.
- **Problem:** Pandas loads all data into RAM (Eager execution), which causes OOM (Out of Memory) errors when processing 500+ high-resolution files on standard hardware.
- **Solution:** Polars optimizes memory usage via zero-copy data sharing and threaded execution, allowing us to process datasets larger than available RAM.

### 2. Storage Format (Parquet + Snappy)
Data is stored as partitioned `.parquet` files with **Snappy** compression.
- **Why Parquet:** Columnar storage allows specific features (e.g., "Close" price) to be queried without scanning the entire dataset (I/O optimization).
- **Why Snappy:** A compression algorithm optimized for high-throughput read speeds, essential for minimizing latency during model training iterations.

### 3. Feature Engineering (Microstructure)
- **Dollar Volume:** Calculated as `Close * Volume`.
- **Theory:** This metric enables downstream transformation from standard Time Bars into **Dollar Bars** (sampling by constant value exchanged). This aligns with Lopez de Prado's findings (*Advances in Financial Machine Learning, 2018*) that sampling by information flow (market activity) rather than chronological time reduces statistical noise (heteroscedasticity) and improves model convergence.

### 4. Labeling (Triple Barrier Method)
Instead of fixed-time horizon labeling (which falls victim to noise), we implemented Lopez de Prado's Triple Barrier Method:
- **Upper Barrier:** Dynamic Profit Take based on rolling volatility (+2σ).
- **Lower Barrier:** Dynamic Stop Loss (-2σ).
- **Vertical Barrier:** Expiration limits (10 bars).
Result: This converts the regression problem ("predict price") into a classification problem ("predict barrier hit"), which statistically improves ML model convergence.

## 5. Preliminary Backtest Results (XGBoost)
Training on Dollar Bars (Threshold: $5B) with Triple Barrier Labeling.
**Metric:** Out-of-Sample Precision (Long Only).

| Ticker    | Precision | Status                            |
| :---      | :---      | :---                              |
| **GOOGL** | 89.74%    | ✅ Strong Alpha (Momentum Regime) |
| **AAPL**  | 59.62%    | ✅ Alpha                          |
| **MSFT**  | 56.90%    | ✅ Alpha                          |
| **NVDA**  | 50.30%    | ⚠️ Neutral / High Volatility      |
| **AMZN**  | 46.34%    | ❌ No Signal                      |

**Average Precision:** 60.58%

## 6. Meta-Labeling without external features
Implemented hierarchical modeling (Meta-Labeling). The primary model predicts direction, and a secondary model filters signals based on the probability of primary success, reducing false positives.

🏆 AVERAGE PRECISION: 63.16%

## Usage
Run the ingestion:
```bash
python ingest.py
